# Learnings

### Movie Buzz, by Rohit Mittal, Yunzhe Liu, Jeremyah Rakotoarinosy, Manasvi Shah, Nitin Ravindra

### Goals
Our original goal was to create a way for users to easily search through movies and get information about them, with the ability to filter movies by relevant traits. We considered many possible ways to expand the project like building an actor social graph or having a database of ratings. We were able to achieve the core of our initial goal with a way to search for movies and filter them by traits. Due to API limitations, there are only a couple ways to filter the search results, and there was no way to create a social graph of actors without a massive amount of API requests and client side computation. However, we substituted this goal with some others. 

### Functionality
Our app is a movie search website that can search through all known movies and allow users to learn about them and interact with them. The home page gives the user a search bar. When the user triggers a search by hitting enter or the button, the [TMDB API](https://developer.themoviedb.org/reference/) is called to retrieve relevant results and the website displays these to the user in a list that shows a thumbnail, title, description, and rating out of 5 stars for each movie. Search results can be filtered to include mature content or filtered by specific release year. The search results page is paginated, and the user can navigate between pages using the page controls in the footer. Each search result can be clicked to display a more detailed page about each movie. This page shows an extended description of the movie, including the movie's cast, similar movies, and reviews. From here, the user can also click on a cast member to open up a page about them, showing their pictures, description, and all the movies they have acted in. This allows a user to efficiently jump from movie to movie when looking for similar movies, or from a movie to an actor, to the other movies they have acted in, giving the user a way to efficiently explore the relationships between movies and actors. Our website is also interactive, allowing users to submit reviews for movies that are persisted through localstorage and displayed to the user on a main reviews page. This allows users to keep track of their ratings and impressions of each movie through different sessions by storing the data locally. 

### Learnings
This project was a valuable learning experience. The core thing we learned was how to work in a group efficiently. Proper task segmentation and collaboration through git to work together was necessary for this project to work. To this end, we segmented the tasks through having each person work on an individual page and one person work on styling in order to keep a consistent style for the website. To help with building, we used the wireframing tools Whimsical and Canva to create sketches of what our pages would look like before building them. In order to collaborate effectively on git and not have too many merge conflicts, our individual pages were separate files that App.js would use to render elements through a Router object. The router is also used to communicate parameters such as movie or actor ID, allowing effective communication between pages. One of the main challenges with using React was figuring out how to handle updating the page and API call when needed, such as when rendering a new search result or movie. To this end, we learned how to use useEffect with a dependency array to query the API and update the state variables used to render the page. Another challenge was understanding the state variable update flow. State variables are updated asynchronously, meaning rather than expecting variables to update as soon as setVariable was called, we had to build our app to render the updated result on the next render cycle. One mistake we made was forgetting about the existence of external react packages that have useful functionality. Using packages such as the react-stars package helped us build our app on top of useful building blocks that we did not have to re-implement ourselves. All in all, the project was a very fun way to learn all the ways to build a frontend with a modern framework and tools. 
